Let's talk about the cash flow statement in more detail.
So with the income statement we know that revenue minus expenses equals net income.
But you know what the income statement is a lie.
It's a lie because it doesn't tell you the real cash balance or cash increase in your pocket.
Income is not cash.
OK.
So that's why we need to have a cash flow statement.
So think about it this way if you get paid right and you have a check and the check is postdated right
you can't cash it for a couple of weeks.
Then you didn't get that cash yet.
And so the income statement is not correct.
That's not revenue yet.
I mean it is revenue but it's not cash revenue.
OK.
So income is not always cash.
So if we take the cash on the balance seat at the end of year 2 and we deduct cash on the balance sheet
at the end of year 1 does that equal net income.
No no it doesn't.
Not at all.
And that's why we have the cash flow statement.
Okay.
So the cash flow statement will tell you why cash increase on the balance sheet from one year or the
next or why cash decreased on the balance sheet when you to the next.
And so here's how you make a cash flow statement.
You start with net income at the top.
Okay.
And then you add back noncash items from the income statement like depreciation and then you add back
noncash items from the balance sheet.
Okay.
So step one was do it get net income from the commission.
And we've got there is three primary to that last section step to add back non-cash expenses.
What we've got.
Depreciation of a buck for that truck.
So we'll add that back so for now cut
and we're done with the income saving portion.
Now what we would do is we go to the balance sheet and add the noncash items but tell you what I want
you to watch the next lecture because I'm going to give you an example and then you'll have an exercise
and this will all make perfect sense.